102

r · ror-rm osor “

cmm
Wv ture into himself. All other ereatures are compara·

erdely detra Dernt'3 but'here the humane Nature

‘ was in the very instant of 'rts prododion, interwo·
· ven with the infinite Person of the Son. Thus we

see, th'at‘ in this stupendious work, Divino Power
aoed magnificently and con ruoussy to its own in·
finity3 never any work did dr fully onswer and cor·
respond to omnipotente as this.

Asecorrd instance of Power we have in the Con·

- ceptlon of our &viduet his body was not formed

in an ordinary way, by the concurrence of Man and
Woman, but dn away super-notuml3· A Virgin

' · was with child. As the body of the first Adone was

high ostrado„ firr above all the Power 01g Nature.

-wonderfully framed out of'the dustr sothe bodyof

the second was admirably framed out of the Virgin.
Thata Vrr in strould be with child, wasa rear, arr
-How then was it effeoedo The Evangelist tellrus,
The Holy Ghost came upon her, the power osthe highest
did overfhade her, Luk 1. 35. This is a sublime
tremendous Mystery3 the Holy Ghost, as the word
(overfhadow) impons, did, as it were, cast aCloud
over her} to teach us, that we {hould not over-cu·
rioussy pry into so great a Work as this was. The
body of our Saviour was not produced spermatically,
out of'the substanceof the Holy Ghost, but Opera·
tively, b the Power of it. The matter of hir bo
,d was rom the substance of the Virgin3 the adire
ldinciple was the infinite spirit. Tre seed of Mon
was not here uflsed3 it was r‘rotcon mous, rha't he,
foho had nod for his Father, {hould have any Man 1
,ro be so: it was a miraoolous extraordinary opera·

troo

 

